PD-158 add page for pxctl secrets (#308)
portworx/pxdocs: content/reference/CLI/secrets.md

---
title: Manage your secrets using pxctl
linkTitle: Manage secrets
keywords: portworx, container, Kubernetes, storage, Docker, k8s, AWS KMS, Kubernetes Secrets, Google Cloud KMS
description: Manage your secrets using pxctl
weight: 9
---

This section provides instructions for managing your authentication credentials and endpoints with the `pxctl secrets` command. Currently, `pxctl` provides support for the following secret store providers:

- AWS KMS
- Google Cloud KMS
- DC/OS Secrets

> - KVdb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kvdb
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- KVDB
```

{{% content "reference/CLI/shared/secrets-definition.md" %}}

Before using the `pxctl secrets` command to manage your secrets, make sure you've configured a secret store provider. See the [Secret store management](/key-management/) page for more details.

{{<info>}}

> To use encrypted volumes and ACLs, you must first make Portworx login to the secrets endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use encrypted volumes and ACLs, you need to ensure that Portworx is authenticated with the secrets endpoint.
```

{{</info>}}

## AWS KMS

You can use the `pxctl` CLI tool to:

- Generate AWS KMS secrets
- Login Portworx with AWS KMS
- List your AWS KMS secrets.

### Generate a secret

> To generate a new KMS Data Key, run the `pxctl secrets aws generate-kms-data-key` command and pass it the `--secret_id` flag as in the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To generate a new KMS Data Key, run the `pxctl secrets aws generate-kms-data-key` command with the `--secret_id` flag as shown in the following example:
```

```text
pxctl secrets aws generate-kms-data-key --secret_id mysecret
```

```output
KMS Data Key successfully created.
```

> ### Login Portworx with AWS KMS

Reviewer 2: I'm a little confused as to what this means. Are you logging Portworx into AWS? Also, Login is a noun. Log in is the verb phrase. 

```suggestion
### Log in Portworx with AWS KMS
```

> ### Log in Portworx with AWS KMS

Reviewer: We are in the process of deprecating login commands. Can we get rid of this section ?

Reviewer: The Key Management sections talk about how to authenticate Portworx with secrets provider. A login command should not be required.

Author: It's removed.

1. Enter the `pxctl secrets aws login` command

2. Respond to the Portworx prompts by entering your AWS KMS information

> ```

Reviewer 2: this code block needs to be tabbed to align with step 2 that it's a part of.

Author: > this code block needs to be tabbed to align with step 2 that it's a part of.

It's updated.

```

For more details on how to create data keys in AWS KMS and use them to encrypt your _Portworx_ volumes, see the [AWS KMS](/key-management/aws-kms) page.

## Google Cloud KMS

With `pxctl`, you can create, list, and delete Google Cloud KMS secrets.

### Create a new secret

You can create a new secret in Google Cloud KMS running `pxctl secrets gcloud create-secret` with the following flags:

- `secret-id` with the id of the secret.
- `passphrase` with the secret passphrase Portworx will associate with `secret-id`.

As an example, here's how you can generate a new secret in Google Cloud KMS:

```text
pxctl secrets gcloud create-secret --secret_id mysecret --passphrase mysecretpassphrase
```

```output
Created secret with id:  mysecret
```

This creates a new key-value pair `mysecret=mysecretpassphrase`. _Portworx_ will use Google Cloud KMS to encrypt the passphrase `mysecretpassphrase` and store it in its internal metadata store. To use this passphrase for encrypting volumes, you have to provide the secret ID `mysecret` while creating/attaching the volume.

### List existing secrets

To list your secrets, run:

```text
pxctl secrets gcloud list-secrets
```

> ### Delete a secret

Reviewer: Lets not doc delete secret, as it can lead to data loss.

Author: I removed this section.

1. Enter the `pxctl secrets gcloud delete-secret` command specifying the `-i` flag with the `id` of the secret you want to delete:

> ```text

Reviewer 2: tab code blocks

Author: > tab code blocks

It's updated.

      pxctl secrets gcloud delete-secret -i mysecret
      ```

2. Enter `Y` to the following prompt:

      ```text
      After deleting this secret, any volumes encrypted with this secret will be unusable.
      Are you sure you want to proceed ? (Y/N):
      ```

For a detailed step-by-step guide on how to configure _Portworx_ with Google Cloud KMS, see the [Google Cloud KMS](/key-management/gcloud-kms/) page.

## DC/OS Secrets

> You can use `pxctl` to authenticate against DC/OS Secrets by running `pxctl secrets dcos login` and specifying the following flags:

Reviewer: Lets remove the login part.

Author: Done

- `--username` with your DC/OS username
- `--password` with your DC/OS username
- `--base-path` with your base path (optional)

As an example, here's how to login to DC/OS using `pxctl`:

```text
pxctl secrets dcos login \
  --username <dcos-username> \
  --password <dcos-password> \
  --base-path <optional-base-path>
```

For more info on how to configure _Portworx_ with DC/OS Secrets, see the [DCOS Secrets](/key-management/dc-os-secrets/) page.

## Kubernetes Secrets

Use the `pxctl secrets k8s login` command to authenticate against Kubernetes Secrets as in the following example:

```text

> pxctl secrets k8s login

Reviewer: same here

Author: Done.

```

To find out how to configure _Portworx_ with Kubernetes Secrets, see the [Kubernetes Secrets](/key-management/kubernetes-secrets/) page.

## Vault

With `pxctl` you can authenticate against a Vault server by running the `pxctl secrets vault login` command and specifying the following flags:

- `--vault-address` with the endpoint of your Vault server
- `--vault-token` with your Vault Token
- `--tls-skip-verify` to skip TLS verification. By default, this is set to `false`
- `--ca-cert` with your Vault CA certificate
- `--ca-path` the Vault CA path
- `--client-cert` with the Vault client certificate
- `--client-key` with the Vault client certificate key
- `--tls-server-name` with your Vault TLS server name
- `--base-path` with the base path to which Portworx has read and write access. Use this if ACL is enabled
- `--backend-path` with the mount path for the Vault key-value storage backend. By default, it is set to `secret/`

Below is an example that shows how to authenticate Portworx with Vault:

```text

> pxctl secrets vault login --vault-address http://myvault.myorg.com --vault-token myvaulttoken

Reviewer: same here: remove login

Author: Done.

---
title: Manage your secrets using pxctl
linkTitle: Manage secrets
keywords: portworx, container, Kubernetes, storage, Docker, k8s, AWS KMS, Kubernetes Secrets, Google Cloud KMS
description: Manage your secrets using pxctl
weight: 9
---

> This document shows how to manage your authentication credentials and endpoints with the `pxctl secrets` command. Currently, `pxctl` provides support for the following secret store providers:

Reviewer 2: I'd like to stop starting articles with "This document ... ". It's ok to be formulaic in how we introduce these, but we can be more specific. Currently, I use the topic/section concept to help imply a sense of location for our readers. Let's talk about this in our 1-1 and think about how we can add some standard guidance to the style/content guide.

```suggestion
This section provides instructions for managing your authentication credentials and endpoints with the `pxctl secrets` command. Currently, `pxctl` provides support for the following secret store providers:
```

> - AWS KMS,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- AWS KMS
```

- Google Cloud KMS,
- DC/OS Secrets,
- kvdb

{{% content "reference/CLI/shared/secrets-definition.md" %}}

Before using the `pxctl secrets` command to manage your secrets, make sure you've configured a secret store provider. See the [Secret store management](/key-management/) page for more details.

{{<info>}}
To use encrypted volumes and ACLs, you must first make Portworx login to the secrets endpoint.
{{</info>}}

## AWS KMS

You can use the `pxctl` CLI tool to:

- Generate AWS KMS secrets
- Login Portworx with AWS KMS
- List your AWS KMS secrets.

### Generate a secret

To generate a new KMS Data Key, run the `pxctl secrets aws generate-kms-data-key` command and pass it the `--secret_id` flag as in the following example:

```text
pxctl secrets aws generate-kms-data-key --secret_id mysecret
```

```output
KMS Data Key successfully created.
```

### Login Portworx with AWS KMS

> To login Portworx with Amazon KMS, type the following command:

Reviewer 2: When we have a task topic with multiple steps, even just two, we should arrange these into numeric steps:

> 1. Enter the `pxctl secrets aws login` command
> 2. Respond to the Portworx prompts by entering your AWS KMS information
>
> If Portworx logs-in to AWS and generates your secret successfully, you will see the following success message:

Author: @nathan-px Thanks, Nathan. It's updated.

```text
pxctl secrets aws login
```

> Then, you will be asked a few questions:

Reviewer 2: We can rewrite this using active voice: 
```suggestion
Portworx prompts you to enter your AWS KMS information.
```

```

For more details on how to create data keys in AWS KMS and use them to encrypt your _Portworx_ volumes, see the [AWS KMS](/key-management/aws-kms) page.

## Google Cloud KMS

With `pxctl`, you can create, list, and delete Google Cloud KMS secrets.

### Create a new secret

You can create a new secret in Google Cloud KMS running `pxctl secrets gcloud create-secret` with the following flags:

- `secret-id` with the id of the secret.
- `passphrase` with the secret passphrase Portworx will associate with `secret-id`.

As an example, here's how you can generate a new secret in Google Cloud KMS:

```text
pxctl secrets gcloud create-secret --secret_id mysecret --passphrase mysecretpassphrase
```

```output
Created secret with id:  mysecret
```

This creates a new key-value pair `mysecret=mysecretpassphrase`. _Portworx_ will use Google Cloud KMS to encrypt the passphrase `mysecretpassphrase` and store it in its internal metadata store. To use this passphrase for encrypting volumes, you have to provide the secret ID `mysecret` while creating/attaching the volume.

### List existing secrets

To list your secrets, run:

```text
pxctl secrets gcloud list-secrets
```

### Delete a secret

> To delete a secret, you must run the `pxctl secrets gcloud delete-secret` command and specify the `-i` flag with the `id` of the secret you want to delete:

Reviewer 2: same note about task topics and steps above

Author: @nathan-px It's updated. Thanks!

## DC/OS Secrets

You can use `pxctl` to authenticate against DC/OS Secrets by running `pxctl secrets dcos login` and specifying the following flags:

- `--username` with your DC/OS username
- `--password` with your DC/OS username
- `--base-path` with your base path (optional)

As an example, here's how to login to DC/OS using `pxctl`:

```text
pxctl secrets dcos login \
  --username <dcos-username> \
  --password <dcos-password> \
  --base-path <optional-base-path>
```

For more info on how to configure _Portworx_ with DC/OS Secrets, see the [DCOS Secrets](/key-management/dc-os-secrets/) page.

## Kubernetes Secrets

Use the `pxctl secrets k8s login` command to authenticate against Kubernetes Secrets as in the following example:

```text
pxctl secrets k8s login
```

To find out how to configure _Portworx_ with Kubernetes Secrets, see the [Kubernetes Secrets](/key-management/kubernetes-secrets/) page.

## Vault

With `pxctl` you can authenticate against a Vault server by running the `pxctl secrets vault login` command and specifying the following flags:

> - `--vault-address` with the endpoint of your Vault server,

Reviewer 2: commas
```suggestion
- `--vault-address` with the endpoint of your Vault server
```
